# KTU OOP Report Generator

A library that generates PDF reports for a OOP course from KTU. To project made
on a whim, because I realised that when you are creating a report you mostly
just copy paste the files contents from your IDE to the document and that's it.

Copy pasting is what a computer is great at doing so why not automate this process?
And that how this project started.

For you to able to use this tool, you need to have all of the project saved somewhere
on your computer. That means you can't just delete your old project when you are
done with them. See why in commonly asked questions at the bottom.

I planned on creating a website through which you could upload your own project
and generate a report. But decide to not do it, because I realised it would take
a lot of time for me to create it myself. So instead of making a website I thought
it would be better to finish making this library and make it public for anyone
else if someone else wants to make a website. The library is licensed under 
GNU GPLv3.

**NOTE! This library only works on unix systems, because of how inputs
from stdin are handled.** If you have a suggestion on how to make this process
cross-platform, I would be welcomed to implement it. But from by experience on
trying to implement this, it was problematic.

## Installation

```shell
git clone https://github.com/RokasPuzonas/ktu-oop-report-generator
cd ktu-oop-report-generator
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Example

Here is the pdf generated by the example: [example-report.pdf](./example-report.pdf)

This example also exists in `main.py` in a function called `example()`

```python
from ktuoopreport import Report, ReportPDF, Gender, Person, ReportSection

# Create example report with no projects
example_report = Report(
		title = "Objektinis programavimas I (P175B118)",
		student = Person("Bobby bob", Gender.MALE),
		lecturer = Person("Alice alison", Gender.FEMALE),
		sections = [
				ReportSection("Introduction to containers"),
				ReportSection("Now let's go to registers"),
				ReportSection("Regex magic"),
				ReportSection("Inheritence")
		]
)

# Generate the pdf and save it to "example-report.pdf"
ReportPDF.generate(example_report, "example-report.pdf")
```

## Common questions

### Why can't you modify existing pdf reports?
Because the PDF format wasn't made in with modification. So that If I wanted to
extend an already existing PDF report I would need to know what settings where
used and where I would need to insert the extra data.

A PDF under the hood uses a binary format. You can read about it more [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDF#File_format).
Another problem is that even if 2 pdf's look the same, they could have different
data under the hood which give the same visual results.

It's not impossible to do, but it's not worth the hassle when you can regenerate
a report in like 5 seconds every time.

### Why don't you generate Word documents? Then you could edit them.
Firstly you only need to upload a PDF to the moodle assigment, so If I generated
a word document I would need to go through an extra step of exporting that word
document to a pdf. Second the PDF is more stable, you could open a pdf created 20
years ago and it would still look the same, but Word's file format changes every
couple of years and has a lot more of unnecessary features.

So mainly for stability and simplicity.

## Commands

### Setup virtual enviroment
```shell
python -m venv venv
```

### Active virtual enviroment
```shell
source venv/bin/activate
```

### Deactivate virtual enviroment
```shell
deactivate
```

### Install from requirements.txt
```shell
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

### Save requirements
```shell
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

## License

KTU OOP Report Generator is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

KTU OOP Report Generator is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with KTU OOP Report Generator.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

